So now let's talk about
the SSM Parameter Store.
It's a secure storage for your configuration
and your secrets.
And optionally,
you can choose to encrypt these configurations
and therefore make it secrets
by using the KMS service.
SSM Parameter Store is serverless,
it's scalable, it's durable,
and the SDK is very easy to use.
On top of it, if you update your parameters
then you have version tracking of them.
The security is provided through IAM
and you get notifications with Amazon EventBridge,
in certain amount of cases.
You have full integration with CloudFormation.
That means that CloudFormation can leverage the parameters
from parameter store as input parameters for your stacks.
So let's take an example.
We have an application
and then we have the SSM parameter store.
So we can store plain text configuration in this way.
Then the IAM permissions of your applications
are going to be checked.
For example, your EC2 instance role
or you can have encrypted configuration.
In that case
the SSM parameter store is going to encrypt it with KMS.
And so the KMS service is going to be used
for encryption and decryption.
And of course, you need to make sure
that your applications do have access
to the underlying KMS key to perform that encryption
and that decryption.
So you can store parameters in the parameter store
with a hierarchy.
So for example, you can define my department
as a path and underneath the My-app and then the Dev
and then we have the Dev DB-URL
and then the DB-password within that folder.
So that means that your parameters goes all the way down
into the hierarchy.
We can go one level up and store a parameter
for the Prod DB-URL, as well as a Prod DB password
and go up to another app or another department.
That really allows you to organize your parameters
the way you want in a structured fashion.
And then this is going to simplify your IAM policies to
allow applications to have access to an entire department,
or to an entire app,
or just to an app department environment specific path.
You also have the opportunity
to access Secrets of Secrets Manager
through the Parameter Store
by using this reference right here.
So it's a little trick that not many people know.
And there are something called Public Parameters
that are issued by AWS that you can use.
For example, if you want to find the latest AMI
for the Amazon Index 2 in your specific region.
This is something that's available
within the Parameter Store as an API call.
So if you take an application,
for example our Dev Lambda function is going to have
an IAM roll that allows it to access
the DB-URL and DB-password within the Dev of my app.
And then if you have a Prod Lambda Function,
thanks to again, a different IAM policy
and maybe some environment variables,
you can access the Prod DB-URL
and Prod DB-password of another path.
(mouse clicks)
Now, within Systems Manager,
you have two kinds of parameter tiers.
You have the standard and the advanced tier.
So the big difference is going to be around the size
of 4KB which is 8KB,
and also the availability of a parameter policy.
For the standard one, we have none but for advanced,
we have some.
The advanced type of parameters
is going to be a $0.05 per month.
Whereas the first one is going to be free.
So what are these parameter policies?
And this is only for advanced parameters.
(mouse clicks)
Well, this allows you to assign a time to live
to a parameter, that means an expiration date.
So that you forced users to update
or delete sensitive data such as passwords.
And you can assign multiple policies at a time.
So here is an example policy.
So this is an expiration policy to delete a parameter
and you say, "Hey, on this time stamp
you must delete these parameter."
And then through the EventBridge integration,
EventBridge is going to get notifications of it.
So in this example, 15 days before the parameter expires
we'll receive notification in EventBridge
which gives us enough time to actually update it
and make sure the parameter is not getting deleted
because of the TTL.
Or maybe sometimes you wanna make sure the parameters
change once in a while.
So you can have a no change notification in EventBridge
so that if a parameter has not been updated for 20 days,
then you will be notified as well.
So you can get very, you know,
creative with the parameter store.
But now you get the idea behind it.
So I hope you like this lecture
and I will see you in the next lecture.